Update release checklist, for recent changes following Jan CPU (#210)
adoptium/adoptium: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/release-checklist.md

The release champion for this release is: _________

Planned absences during the release cycle:

The role of the release champion is to ensure that all release activities listed in this checklist get completed (by delegation to the broader team or by the release champion themselves).  The final task of the release champion during a release is to confirm that all items in the checklist were completed satisfactorily and the release can be declared complete.

Everyone participating in a release, including the release champion are requested to provide feedback into the release retrospective so that the release process can be continuously improved (through simplification and/or automation).

-------

### Two Weeks Prior To Release

> - [ ] **Release Champion named** whose responsibility is to ensure every item in this checklist gets completed

Author: Issue #212 has been raised

> In preparation for the upcoming release cycle, Im proposing to perform
> a code freeze on the following repositories on "Release Date - 7" (1 week prior to release)
>
> - [github-release-scripts](https://github.com/adoptium/github-release-scripts)
> - [containers](https://github.com/adoptium/containers)
> - [installer](https://github.com/adoptium/installer)
> - [mirror-scripts](https://github.com/adoptium/mirror-scripts)
>
> Please ensure any PRs required for the release are merged before the (DATE).

- [ ] **Create Release Branches**
create branches in the following adoptium source repositories :-
		[temurin-build](https://github.com/adoptium/temurin-build)
		[ci-jenkins-pipelines](https://github.com/adoptium/ci-jenkins-pipelines)
		[jenkins-helper](https://github.com/adoptium/jenkins-helper)

These branches should be named according to the following format (vYYYY.MM.NN) ,e.g v2023.03.01 , whereby the final element is an incremental counter appended to the year and month of the release.

 - [ ] Check the nagios server to ensure there are no critical infrastructure issues

 - [ ] **Prepare & Perform Dry Run Of Build & Tests**

> >  - Identify the relevent aqa-tests branch version

Reviewer: It's mentioned in L108 "Generate release pipeline jobs..."; should it be moved earlier? Or is it a different instruction?

  </ul>
</details>

 - [ ] **Enable code freeze bot** In order to enable the code freeze GitHub you need to change the line `if: github.repository_owner == 'adoptium' && false` to be `if: github.repository_owner == 'adoptium' && true` in the [code-freeze.yml](https://github.com/adoptium/.github/blob/main/.github/workflows/code-freeze.yml#L21) GitHub workflow. Please contact the PMC if you need help merging this change.
 - [ ] **Freeze The Non Tagged Repositories** implement code freeze on the following repositories : 		
	 - github-release-scripts https://github.com/adoptium/github-release-scripts
	 - containers https://github.com/adoptium/containers
	 - installer https://github.com/adoptium/installer
	 - mirror-scripts https://github.com/adoptium/mirror-scripts

> - [ ] **Disable nightly builds completely** by disabling the pipelines temporarily to free up resources and ensure no competing jobs during release week

Reviewer 2: maybe mention it is standard nightly and the evaluation nightly both

Reviewer: As new reader, question comes to mind: How do I disable the pipelines? 

Also might be worth explicitly listing pipeline names all together (for nightly & weekly). E.g replace disable nightly/weekly with just:

Disable the following pipelines:
...

>  - Update releaseVersions with release versions.
>  - Update https://github.com/adoptium/mirror-scripts/blob/master/releasePlan.cfg
> with expected tags, for more detail see
> https://github.com/zdtsw/mirror-scripts/tree/issue/3167#skara-repos-and-processes
- [ ] Generate release pipeline jobs for the new build scripts repo release tag, helper repo release tag and aqaReference: https://ci.adoptopenjdk.net/job/build-scripts/job/utils/job/release-build-pipeline-generator/build?delay=0sec

**Wait For All Of The Above To Complete Successfully Before Proceeding!**

- [ ] Log a helpdesk ticket with EF , to get all test materials updated
- [ ] TC: Run the ProcessCheckMultiNode process cleaning job on all ci.role.test nodes, to ensure healthy state, verify all nodes successful: https://ci.eclipse.org/temurin-compliance/job/ProcessCheckMultiNode/build?delay=0sec
- [ ] TC: Run the Setup_JCK_Run_Multinode job with CLEAN_DIR=true (to purge any old release contents/results) on all ci.role.test nodes, this will extract the jck_run folder with all the temurin.jtx exclude files, verify all nodes successful : https://ci.eclipse.org/temurin-compliance/job/Setup_JCK_Run_Multinode/build?delay=0sec

> - [ ] Check the nagios server to ensure there are no critical infrastructure issues

Reviewer 2: some more description: where/how to check, if/which account to login nagios UI and how to report if issue

Author: Done, theres also some presentation and documentation on this, that is currently being written, once its done, I'll update this checklist to point at the "How-To" guide

- [ ] **Trigger a trial release pipeline dry-run** to ensure less surprises on release day (typically against a milestone build), see here for [details](https://github.com/adoptium/temurin-build/blob/master/RELEASING.md#auto-way---before-release-week-auto-test)

- [ ] Confirm successful trial release pipelines and successful jck completion
- [ ] Calculate the "expected" openjdk build tags for the releases being published, and update all the JDKnn_BRANCH values in the testenv.properties file for the aqa-tests release branch, eg: https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/v0.9.6-release/testenv/testenv.properties

-------

Release Week Checklist:

> - [ ] **Add website banner** (_automate_* via github workflow in website repository) - Announce that we target releases to be available within 48-72 hours of the GA tags being available

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Add website banner** (this is done by making a PR then it gets automate published to website) - Announce that we target releases to be available within 48-72 hours of the GA tags being available
```

- [ ]   -- Check All Nodes Online ( Needs adding to release checklist ) - https://ci.eclipse.org/temurin-compliance/label/ci.role.test/
- [ ]  Run https://ci.eclipse.org/temurin-compliance/job/ProcessCheckMultiNode/ -- with defaults
- [ ] Run Setup_JCK_Multinode with CLEAN_DIR=true for ( ci.role.test )
- [ ] Disable Setup JCK_MUltinode To Ensure Test Evidence Is Not Lost
- [ ] Check the nagios server to ensure there are no critical infrastructure issues
- [ ] Create The Github Issues for tracking progress against each Java version

> The following steps have all been automated ( with the exception of manually triggering the JDK8 AARCH32 build, which must be done seperately when the tags are available )

Reviewer: Think this needs some structural adjustment. Naively it reads everything following this statement is automated all the way to declaration of the release as complete.

Author: Adjusted appropriately, to reduce confusion.

  </ul>
</details>

 - [ ] **Enable code freeze bot** In order to enable the code freeze GitHub you need to change the line `if: github.repository_owner == 'adoptium' && false` to be `if: github.repository_owner == 'adoptium' && true` in the [code-freeze.yml](https://github.com/adoptium/.github/blob/main/.github/workflows/code-freeze.yml#L21) GitHub workflow. Please contact the PMC if you need help merging this change.
 - [ ] **Freeze The Non Tagged Repositories** implement code freeze on the following repositories : 		
	 - github-release-scripts https://github.com/adoptium/github-release-scripts
	 - containers https://github.com/adoptium/containers
	 - installer https://github.com/adoptium/installer
	 - mirror-scripts https://github.com/adoptium/mirror-scripts

> - [ ] **Disable standard & evaluation nightly builds completely** by disabling the pipelines temporarily to free up resources and ensure no competing jobs during release week

Reviewer 3: Should add a note to do this by setting defult for ENABLE_PIPELINE_SCHEDULE to false in the https://ci.adoptium.net/job/build-scripts/job/utils/job/build-pipeline-generator/, and then re-running it.

Reviewer 3: otherwise if you just disable the project, upon a PR merge regen will re-enable it...

Reviewer 2: Yes, the proper way is to do it from config and re-run seed job.

Last time, I did the shortcut to only disabled it from Jenkins UI, based on no new commit could be merged to "master" of ci-jenkins-pipeline during the release period.  
But since we are using release branches now, it is safer to do it from config.

Author: Done!

> - [ ] **Disable standard & evaluation weekend builds completely** by disabling the pipelines temporarily to free up resources and ensure no competing jobs during the weekend prior to release, helps ensure no long running weekend jobs take critical resources during the beginning of the release period.

Reviewer 3: ditto ^

>  - Double check the relevent aqa-tests branch version, ensure git branch for 'aqaReference' to be used in release pipeline: https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/branches (branch name to use should match the name of the [latest aqa-tests release](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/releases/latest))
>  - Update releaseVersions with release versions.
>  - Update https://github.com/adoptium/mirror-scripts/blob/master/releasePlan.cfg
> with expected tags, for more detail see
> https://github.com/zdtsw/mirror-scripts/tree/issue/3167#skara-repos-and-processes
- [ ] Generate release pipeline jobs for the new build scripts repo release tag, helper repo release tag and aqaReference: https://ci.adoptopenjdk.net/job/build-scripts/job/utils/job/release-build-pipeline-generator/build?delay=0sec

**Wait For All Of The Above To Complete Successfully Before Proceeding!**

- [ ] Log a helpdesk ticket with EF , to get all test materials updated
- [ ] TC: Run the ProcessCheckMultiNode process cleaning job on all ci.role.test nodes, to ensure healthy state, verify all nodes successful: https://ci.eclipse.org/temurin-compliance/job/ProcessCheckMultiNode/build?delay=0sec

> - [ ] TC: Run the Setup_JCK_Run_Multinode job with CLEAN_DIR=true (to purge any old release contents/results) on all ci.role.test nodes, this will extract the jck_run folder with all the temurin.jtx exclude files, verify all nodes successful : https://ci.eclipse.org/temurin-compliance/job/Setup_JCK_Run_Multinode/build?delay=0sec

Reviewer 3: I think the cleaning job needs running at the 2week point, as we are likely to hit "locked" files, as Shelley mentioned...
